Do you like travelling?

Yes, definitely! I think seeing the world, from great historical monuments to white sandy beaches, is what life is all about. It's a very interesting way to learn about new cultures and explore new places.

What is your favourite type of holiday?

I really like going to the countryside, getting away from it all. Nothing relaxes me as much as wilderness... I am tired of tourist traps and usually go off the beaten track...

What do you do on holidays?

I prefer visiting various museums and places of interest. For instance, on my last vacation I was to Rome and I visited 12 museums. It was fantastic! Of course, sometimes I go shopping with my friends or relatives too... But I don't find it near as exciting...

Are there many tourists visiting your country?

Probably yes... My country has different tourist attractions in many cities, especially the capital... For example, my country has old-time religious traditions... That's why we have a lot of ancient cathedrals and churches that are interesting for both tourists and local citizens...



Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe a tourist attraction you once visited. You should say:
When you visited it
Where is it situated
Who you went with
and say what about it you like the most


A couple of years ago I went on a holiday to Paris with my parents… it is a very popular tourist destination, since it has various places of interest, such as ancient museums and monuments… That's why there are always hordes of tourists... So we decided to go out of season in the autumn… Fortunately, the weather was great, and we did not waste any days watching TV at the hotel... it was a memorable holiday … we enjoyed breathtaking views from the top of the Eiffel tower and dined in cozy little restaurants. I would certainly recommend visiting Paris, it is a picturesque city.


Part 3
Why do you think tourism is so developed now?

Well, because it is a lot easier to travel nowadays… you can choose charter flights and find various youth hostels all around the world, so you don’t need to spend much money on the travelling. Moreover, you can book a trip via the Internet, so you don't even have to leave home.

How people choose their destination?

There are a lot of ways. For instance, you can surf the internet for all the necessary information… Or you can visit different travel agencies for more advice.

What kind of transport do you prefer on holidays? Why?

It depends… I usually reach my holiday destination by plane because it is the fastest and the least dangerous way to travel. However, flying can be a bit uncomfortable... So I also travel by train from time to time… But I never drive car on a vacation, because I do it every day when I work... I would have a busman's holiday otherwise.

Do you prefer travelling alone or in tour groups? Why?

I definitely prefer travelling alone because I like to plan the trip by myself... When choosing a guided tour, you should always conform to a set schedule… So if you are in India and, say, you want to spend an extra hour at Taj Mahal, you simply cannot do that with a group tour... I like independent travel. That way I get to see and do exactly what I want and spend as much time as I want at various stops.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Do you have a lot of friends?

Not a lot, but I have a few very close friends … I think it is better to have one reliable friend that a thousand fair-weather friends... Although it's not easy to meet someone you have a lot in common with, I think managed to do it.

How often do you see your friends?

As often as I can... We enjoy each other's company, so we see each other almost daily... What's more, we live very close to each other, so it's easy for us to meet up.

Is there anything special about your friends?

Oh, that's an interesting question... I guess there are lot of things... For instance, my best friend can draw unbelievable art, good enough to sell. And my other friend is really keen on cooking... But most importantly, they are people, who are near and dear to my heart.

For how long do you know them?

I’ve known my friends since my childhood… We've been through thick and thin together… Probably that's why we're so close now.



Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe your friend. You should say:
Who is he/she
When did you meet
Why is he/she so close to you
and say what do you like about your friend the most


I would like to talk about my friend William... I wouldn't say he's my best friend, but I would rather call him as a good friend of mine... I met him last year at local sports centre. It turned out that we were studying at the same college... Then, miraculously, I got into the same class with him and we got on like a house on fire... He's the sweetest person I've ever met! He's smart, helpful, caring, funny and somehow good-looking... And most importantly, we have a lot in common and he understands me as nobody else does.
Part 3
Do you think friendship is important nowadays?

Yes, certainly! Without my friends I’d be very sad and lonely, but they cheer me up and help in every way possible… Of course, all relationships have their ups and downs, but we should definitely try not to lose touch with our friends.

What do you think is the best time to get new friends?

Hmm... Probably, the best time to get new friends is your school and university years. You have many possibilities to get in touch with different people… And it is easier to find friends with similar interests...

Is it important to stay in touch with your friends throughout the years?

Yes, it very important not to lose touch with your friends… Surely, everyone changes and even close friends can drift apart. But, in my opinion, friends are your second family and we should highly appreciate them.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Do you use any gadgets on a daily basis?

Yes, surely I do... Although I don't consider myself a geek, I quite enjoy using all the new items like laptops and smartphones... All in all, we're living in the computer age and it's impossible to ignore cutting-edge technology.

How often do you use Internet?

I use Internet every day... It helps me with my studies and it entertains me when I’m down... Surfing the Internet is my hobby... I also frequently use World Wide Web for communication purposes... Though I don't like social media like Facebook, I often use video conferencing for talking.

Do you own a computer? If so, how often do you use it and for what purposes?

Yes, I have a personal computer and a laptop... I use my laptop mainly for education... It is very light and fits in my bag easily, so I take it with me to school... Meanwhile, my PC has a large screen and convenient keyboard, so I use it for word processing and browsing websites. It is an old, but still well-oiled machine...



Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe your favourite gadget. You should say:
What is it
When did you get it
How often do you use it
and say why is it so important to you


I don’t own many gadgets... I have a PC, laptop and a smartphone and I can’t imagine my life without either of those... However, my laptop is the most important piece of technology for me... I got it as a birthday present from my parents a few years ago and I use it nearly every day now. Although at first using it was like rocket science for me, after a few weeks I was able to do everything I needed... From browsing websites to reinstalling the operating system... What's more, without my laptop I wouldn’t be able to do my homework for the university... Also, I use it for surfing the Internet and finding whatever I want, whether it is a piece of code for my project or a useful tip on how to cook a steak... Generally, my laptop became an essential device for me...


Part 3
Do you think we need to know much about computers?

Well... Not too much, but there is definitely a couple of essential things everyone should know. First of all, you need to know how to enter a web address... how to navigate websites... It is very important nowadays to be able to surf the net for the information you need...

What is the most impactful piece of technology in our lives?

In my point of view, the Internet is the most important technological advance of our time... It gives us so many new opportunities to discover anything we want about our world! You just need to boot up your computer an go online... And with wireless networks at home and public Wi-Fi hotspots we can do it easily and almost everywhere.

How computers affect our everyday life?

In a positive way, certainly. They help with so many things, starting from writing and printing your own essay and ending with developing advanced programs and digital editing... Without computers studying would have been time-consuming and inefficient...

How effective is the use of computers in the classroom?

Hmm… in my opinion, using computers in the classroom is very effective. I think it is important for students to become competent in the use of computers to prepare them for the workplace … you know, computers are used everywhere in the workplace now. But… I also think that having computers so easily available gives teachers the opportunity to introduce students to the variety of information on the Internet.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

What kind of sport do you prefer?

I don't prefer a specific kind of sport, but I really like working out in the gym… That helps me to keep my body in a good shape… A few years ago I had a sports coach, but now I developed my own fitness program and train alone…

Do you do any kind of sports during weekends?

Yes, sure! I have a lot of spare time during weekends and I do javelin on Saturdays… In summertime I also go cycling with my friends... Generally, I don’t like staying at home all day... I prefer active rest…

Tell me about your hobbies. Is there anything you like to do in your leisure time?

I used to play tennis as a hobby… But a few months ago my family moved to a new place, and there were no tennis courts nearby... That's why I took up wrestling... But I still play tennis every once in a while.

Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe a place that you visit to keep fit. You should say:
What is it
When do you go there
What do you do there
and say why do you like it


I would like to talk about my local gym that I visit three times a week... It’s a new sports centre with the latest fitness equipment… It has everything you would ever need to keep fit: treadmills, various dumbbells and exercisers for different muscle groups. Moreover, it offers a wide range of different classes for every taste... I developed my own strength-building strategy, so usually I start with a short warm-up when I jog on the treadmill for a few minutes to sweat... Then, I go to the weights sections and start doing lifting exercises... Finally, I end my workout with stretching... I try not to miss my trainings, because they help me to relax and forget about the daily routine.


Part 3
Should people go in for sports more?

Yes, definitely… Sport should be an essential part of everyone’s life. Not only is it good for your health, but it also helps you to be in a good mood… So people should certainly train more.

Which sport is the best for people, who aren’t used to work-out?

In my point of view, everybody should start with light trainings, maybe jogging or brisk walk every day... It is better to avoid strenuous exercises for the first couple of months, so powerlifting is definitely out of the question…

Why some people enjoy sports more than others?

It is a tough question… I would say, the main reason is it's hard to find your perfect kind of sport… if you don’t like football or basketball it doesn't mean you won't enjoy cricket, for example… It's important not to fear trial-and-error method and you’ll inevitably find your ideal sport.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What kinds of meals do you like?

Oh, I adore different meat plates… My mouth is watering whenever I see roast beef, grilled chicken or pork chops… However, I don’t like to cook… That's why I often eat ready meals and take-aways.

Do you often dinner with your family or friends?

Well, I try to dinner with my family as often as possible… Unfortunately, I don’t have enough time for such dinners due to my busy schedule...

When do you usually eat dinner?

I usually have main meal at about 4 p.m. … I'm starving hungry by then and sometimes overeat myself...

Are there any fruits or vegetables you don’t like? Why?

Yes, there are… I’m not a fussy eater, but I really hate onions and seafood… I try to avoid meals that might contain these products…

And what is your favourite cuisine?

Well, I love French cuisine for its versatility and flavorful ingredients.... French cuisine has a variety of dishes, starting from their famous onion soup and ending with cheese fondue... Also, it rarely uses artificial ingredients or flavors.



Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe a place you like to eat at. You should say:
Where is it
What kind of food it serves
Why do like its food
and how often do you eat there


I would like to talk about a nice little restaurant in a walking distance of my apartment called "La Pasta"… It is situated on the ancient street in the old city centre... This restaurant serves various meals of Italian cuisine that I enjoy… For example, they serve extremely delicious pasta, pizza and tomato soup... I particularly love their pasta... It is very versatile food, and can be made in many ways... I general, I love Italian food because it is all about fresh, flavorful ingredients... That's why I eat in that restaurant every now and then with my family and friends… Although it’s not cheap, its quality justifies the bill…


Part 3
How can we make people eat healthier food?

The best approach for this problem is to strike a balance between junk food and healthy food… You can eat unhealthy ever so rarely, if you manage to eat nutritious products the majority of the time… I eat junk food myself, by I try not to abuse my health…

Do you think people enjoy what they eat on a regular?

I don’t really know, but I’m leaning towards a negative answer… People are often lazy when chosing their meals… They try to catch a snack to restrain their hunger… But it is neither healthy nor enjoyable…

Do you think that cooking is a pleasure a burden for most people?

I can’t speak for everybody, but I think that cooking is more of a chore than a pleasure… But it really depends on a person… Some people might love cooking... If it is their passion or a beloved job, then it's good for them… But I’m not among those people… Personally, I prefer dining out.

-------------------------------------------------------------

Do you work or are you a student?

At the moment I'm studying. I’m doing a graduate degree in molecular biology in the Vanderbilt University.

Why did you choose that subject?

I've always loved life sciences, particularly biology... And when I received my bachelor's degree I took a research internship in a laboratory where I studied interactions between proteins... And then I understood that I want to pursue my career in biochemistry or molecular biology.

Can you describe yourself as a good student?

Well, overall I think I am a good student. ... I am not an eager beaver, nor the teacher's pet... but I'm good at scientific subjects and, most importantly, I like studying.

Do you study English now?

Yes, of course. I've taken an intensive course this year, where I've attend classes three times a week... And I plan on pursuing my studies in the future, too...

Did you enjoy/Do you enjoy studying at school?

I've never really liked school... I'm not a bookworm and a lot of humanities subjects seemed too boring to me. However, the workload was not too big... The other good thing about school is being able to see your friends. And fortunately, I had wonderful classmates. 

Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe a period of time from your studies that was the most difficult for you so far. You should say:
When it was
Why was it hard
What you were doing at that time

I would like to talk about my last school year. It was really diffucult due to enormous amounts of homework I had to do and all the exams I had to prepare for... Em, so I studied hard, having no time to goof around ... Moreover, I forgot a lot of things from the school curriculum, that's why I had to do a lot of revision... But despite the tough preparation, I managed to set aside some time to rest and interact with my friends and family... After all, my efforts were not in vain... I passed all the exams well and was admitted to the university of my dream.


Part 3
What are some essential qualities every teacher should have?

As for me, every teacher should be able to catch student's attention. It is very important to make your subject interesting to the others... Also, teacher should be a subject specialist and a kind, helpful person..

What are some pros of studying on a distance learning course?

To be honest, I think it's very advantageous to study in such way... It gives you more time flexibility, especially if you have a job... Not to mention that it is fairly cheap, compared to face-to-face classes...

Does everybody get equal opportunities to study?

Definitely not. I think it really depends on a country you live in... Moreover, it depends on your financial capabilities... Some schools and universities are just too expensive... Only a small fraction of people can afford to study there.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


What's the weather in your country?

The weather in my country is pretty nice. We have a mild climate, so it's never boiling hot in the summer or freezing cold in the winter.

Does the weather affect your mood?

Yes... Cold, gloomy days put me in a bad mood. I love summertime, when it's warm and sunny.

Do you like rainy days?

Yes, absolutely! I like when it rains... I love all the freshness around, the cool breeze after a heavy rain. It's wonderful!

What is your favourite season?

Well, I think it's spring... The weather is very pleasant and it's nice to see everything come back to life and blossom.

Do you like winters?

No, not really... For me winter is the most depressing season, because where I live it's freezing cold in the winter. Moreover, the days are short and you can't do a lot of outdoor activities.

Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe your favourite weather. You should say:
What the weather is like
Why do you like it
Where you can exprerience such weather conditions.

It may sound strange, but my favourite weather is when it is cloudy, windy and drizzling as it makes me feel calm and relaxed... I like such weather especially at night because I can hear the little raindrops falling and see the dew on the window, and it helps me to sleep... It is very pleasant... Also, I love foggy weather... It's very romantic and gives me a sort of feeling like I'm in an old black and white movie. However, I don't like heavy rains and downpours. And I hate when temperature goes below zero, it's too cold for me. Probably, the type of weather I like is common for the United Kingdom... But in my hometown such type of weather is very rare. Usually, we have dry and sunny days with occasional spells of rainy weather.


Part 3
Does air pollution affect the weather?

Yes, it does... It affects the overall temperature of the world, making the weather warmer. Also, it often causes smog and gloomy weather.

Do you think that weather affects people's behaviour?

Yes, I think that people respond to bad weather... In my opinion, during cold and dull days people are more depressed and irritated than usual... While bright sunshine and warmth makes us feel good.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Do you think pollution is a big problem nowadays?

Yes, definitely. Air and water pollution are huge issues in the modern world... The air pollution problem is especially grave due to the increasing amount of exhaust fumes, which are produced by cars, and result into a poor air quality.

What do you do to prevent our environment from pollution?

A lot of things... First of all, I don't litter. Also, my family and me try to buy only environmentally friendly goods whenever we can... And finally, I try to save trees... I print on both sides of every sheet of paper I use and use any left over white space to scribble notes.

Have you ever participated in any environmental events?

Yes, of course! Last year I participated in an event in my hometown, which was all about preserving nature... We were taught about the greenhouse effect and I learned about many endangered species in the world.



Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe an environmental problem or event. You should say:
What is it
Where is it happening
What problems does it cause

I would like to talk about global warming. In my opinion, it is a big, if not the biggest, problem that we are facing nowadays. The main reason of global warming is the greenhouse effect ... Nowadays people are producing excessive amounts of greenhouse gases, mostly by burning fossil fuels. These gases let sunlight in, which warms the Earth, and then block that heat from leaving... That breaks the delicate natural balance and causes our planet to warm... As global warming changes the climate on the whole planet, it affects all countries in the world and causes many serious problems... For example, global warming causes melting of glaciers, which in turn raises the sea-level... Eventually, coastal areas are flooding and agriculture is damaged unless appropriate measures are taken... As it is a worldwide problem, I think that only joint efforts will help us to overcome this issue.


Part 3
In which way do people damage our planet?

Er... In my point of view, we damage the Earth in many ways. Just take a look at all those factories that empty toxic waste into rivers and lakes... People also destroy a great deal of natural areas in search of fossil fuels. Not to mention poaching and endangering of wild animals.

Do you think that the environmental situation will improve in the nearest future?

Yes, I would like to believe so... People are getting more and more aware of the major environmental issues that we're dealing with nowadays... I hope that we will get back to nature and start caring about our planet more.


----------------------------------------------------------

Do you like listening to the music on a regular basis?


 
Yes, without a doubt. I like different music genres and I listen to various tunes almost every day... I do not like elevator music, though... It makes me bored and annoyed.

Have you ever been interested in singing?

No, not really... I took singing classes when I was younger, but, unfortunately, I am tone deaf, so I can't sing very well...

Can you say that music is a very important part of your life?

No, I can't... Although I enjoy music and listen to classical music every now and then, I'm not obsessed with it...



Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe a band you enjoy listening to. You should say:
How did you find them
What kind of music do they play
When do you listen to them
And say why you like them so much

I really enjoy listening to Maroon 5... I found this music band a few years ago, when I was looking for some pop music on the Internet... And, immediately after listening to the few of their songs, I fell in love with this awesome band... Their music is very catchy and tuneful at the same time. I especially like this band for their driving rhythms... As of today, I have gone to a few of their concerts and have their posters all over my wall. I listen to their songs when I'm upset or stressed out... They always cheer me up... Also, one of their songs, namely "Payphone", is set as a ringtone on my phone.


Part 3
Do you think music is getting better as time goes on?

No, quite the opposite. In my opinion, music was a lot better back in the day... I love music from 60s and 70s... There are myriads of famous rock bands of that time that I really like... And nowadays almost every pop-song sounds boring and dull to me...

Where do you think people enjoy listening to music the most?

I my point of view, it all depends on a person... As for me, I enjoy listening to the music in my room, where nobody can bother me... But a lot of my friends would prefer listening to the music while travelling in public transport... This way their journey becomes more pleasant.

Is it better to go to a live concert or to listen to a CD?

I think that nothing compares to a live concert! It's just magical to be on a concert in a large group of people like you, listening to the songs you know being played right in front of you… It's empowering, and completely unlike listening to recorded music.

Do you like the same music as your parents?

Um... When I was a child I used to listen to the same music as my parents did… Probably, that was because we were often driving in the same car … and my parents always turned on some jazz on the radio. So I thought I was fond of jazz… But eventually I discovered other music genres and understood that I like rock music and techno much more…

--------------------------------------------------

Do you enjoy reading?

Yes, absolutely! A great way to relax to learn something new is to peruse a book... I'm so addicted to reading that sometimes I can't even fall asleep without an hour of bedtime reading.

Do you like watching movies?

No, not really... If I have some free time, I'd rather read an interesting book... Books leave us a lot of space for imagination, while in movies everything is spelled out for us... That's why I find films boring.

What is the last book you read? And did you like it?

The last book I've read is "Theatre" written by William Somerset Maugham ... and I absolutely enjoyed it! Maugham is my favourite writer of all time and I've read his novel from cover to cover in 2 days... I was truly captivated by the characters and the unravelling of the plot.

How often do you go to the cinema with your friends?

Quite often, to be honest... I like catching the latest movies with my friends, so we go to the cinema almost every week. I especially like action movies and sci-fi films.



Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe a book or a film that had a strong impact on you. You should say:
What was it
When you read or saw it
How it influenced you
And say if you liked it and why.

A book that I'd like to talk about is called "Flowers for Algernon" written by Daniel Keyes. You won't believe, but I picked up this novel from a shelf in a bookstore because it had a beautiful cover! Although a proverb says "don't judge a book by its cover", I did exactly the opposite... and the book turned out to be one of the greatest things I've ever read... In fact, this novel is very intense and thought-provoking... It is set in form of diary entries of the protagonist - mentally-disabled man Charlie, whose IQ changes after brain surgery... It drastically changed the way I looked at how intelligence influences people's attitude to others and to the world in general. Also, I had to overthink how many boundaries does new knowledge open and how mentally disabled people are treated in the society... In general, the book was somewhat tear-jerking for me, but I still highly enjoyed it and would recommend it to anyone looking for a powerful and inspirational read.


Part 3
Why do you think cinemas are still popular nowadays, even though people can watch movies in their homes?

I believe that there are several reasons for it... First of all, watching a film on a big screen is a lot more fun than watching it at home... Not to mention the fact that you won't be able to see the movie on the DVD as soon as in the movie theater... You'll have to wait a couple of months for the DVD release of the movie... Moreover, a lot of people like the atmosphere of cinema with its half-light halls, popcorn and sound effects.

What do you think about e-books?

In my opinion, a paperback or hardback books are much better... Reading a book from an e-reader just doesn't feel the same for me - I adore the sensation of turning pages and that special smell of paper. I think that the look and feel of a book can never be replaced by an e-reader... But I do understand usefulness of electronic books. It is very convenient to be able to carry hundreds of books in your pocket and have a possibility to read them at any time... Also, e-readers support keyword search, which paperbacks obviously do not



--------------------------------------------------------------------


Do you have any unhealthy habits?

Well, actually I do... When I'm stressed, I bite my lips and pick my nails. Moreover, I used to smoke cigarettes a few years ago, but hopefully I managed to break this habit.

What do you do to stay healthy?

I try to eat healthy food and do regular exercises... Also, I think it's very important to develop a healthy lifestyle and stick to it... For example, I try to avoid eating junk food.

In your opinion, what is more important, eating healthy food or doing exercises?

Hm... It's an interesting question... To be honest, I believe that it is crucial to do both in order to be healthy... However, if I had to choose only one option, I would choose eating healthy food, because otherwise, the risk of developing a chronic disease of digestive system increases... 

Part 2
Now, have a look at the card and prepare a monologue.

Describe your (or your friend's) illness or injury experience. You should say:
What was it
When did it happen
How did you (or your friend) handled it
and say how do you feel about it now.


I would like to talk about a car accident that happened to me a few years ago and resulted in serious injuries... It was a horrible experience that I would not want to relive ... my family was driving home, when a big truck crashed into our passenger car. After the accident I blacked out and was transported to the hospital. When I regained consciousness, I discovered that I had five broked bones, several ruptures and many cuts and bruises. To restore the collarbone and leg bone, I had to go through operations, during which metal rods were put onto these bones to fix them... Not surprisingly, I was in a severe pain, so physicians prescribed me to take painkillers and other medicines for a couple of weeks. During my recovery, I wasn't able to walk properly and my life then was very difficult. But after several months of proper treatment and physical therapy I fully recovered ... I even took up karate soon after! Although the illness was definitely not a pleasant experience, I am very happy and grateful that now I am healthy... Probably, I leaned to value health and became stronger.


Part 3
How can people be encouraged to stay healthy?

It's an interesting question... In my opinion, government could encourage people to go in for sports by making it more affordable and popular... Promoting healthy food rationing on the television might be a good idea as well...

What is the best way of helping people with an addiction?

If you ask me, rehab is the best opnion for such people... Professional medical care is essential, if someone wants to overcome the addiction... However, it is also very important to have relatives and friends that would mentally support this person during this period of his or her life...

Do you think people start worrying more about their health as they become older?

Yes, without a doubt! When you're young, you can affort to drink alcohol and stay awake all night long without damaging your health very much... But as you get older, your body demands more attention and care, therefore you need to worry about your health more and have frequent check-ups...


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Advanced vocabulary:
addict: a person, who is obsessed (addicted) by (to) something, drugs or alcohol, for example.
My friend used to be an addict, but thankfully he's healthy now.
a check-up: an examination done by a doctor.
I felt ill for a few days, so I went for a check-up.
a runny nose: a nose that has liquid coming out of it.
I caught a cold so now I have a runny nose.
chronic disease: a type of disease that continues to occur for a long time.
My friend Rob needs to use inhaler every day, because he has chronic asthma.
impediment: a physical defect that hinders normal or easy speech.
After an accident, Jim developed an impediment - he stutters.
epidemic: when disease spreads very quickly and effects a large number of people.
There was a large epidemic in South Africa in 20th century. It took away millions of lives.
painkillers: medicine for dealing with pain.
I had to take the painkillers last night, because I couldn't handle the pain.
rehab: a course of treatment for drug or alcohol or any other dependence.
After talking to a doctor, Jim decided to go to a rehab.
to diagnose: to recognise an illness by examining the patient.
Although Nick had a very rare disease, his doctor managed to diagnose it correctly.
to stutter: to talk with a continued accidental repetition of sounds.
Sometimes you might develop a stutter if you have been scared by someone or something

Useful idioms:

 
alive and kicking: to continue being well and healthy.
My grandma is almost 90 but she's still alive and kicking.
to break a habit: to stop doing something that is a habit, especially something bad or harmful.
I was a drug addict, but a managed to break this habit.
to black out: to lose consciousness.
I blacked out before my final exam, because I was too worried about it.
to be under the weather: to feel ill.
Mary won't be at work todays, she's a bit under the weather.
to phone in sick: to call your superior to inform him/her that you are sick and won't be at work for some time.
I had to phone in sick last week, because I caught a flu.
sick as a dog = to be at death’s door: very sick.
Paul caught a flu a few days ago and now he's sick as a dog.
white as a sheet: can be sad about a very pale person.
Jonh looks sick. Look at him! He's white as a sheet.



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Adjectives to describe books and films:
action-packed: full of action.
My brother loves action-packed movies. Probably that's why his favourite film is "Terminator".
addictive: a book or film that you quickly become addicted to.
"Harry Potter" series by Joanne Rowling are so addictive! I couldn't stop after the first book and read all volumes.
creepy: producing a sensation of uneasiness or fear, scary.
Noah finds Stephen King's stories creepy.
dreary: gloomy or depressing.
I can't stand dramas, thrillers and other dreary movies.
entertaining: funny and enjoyable.
Comedies are very entertaining.
futuristic: telling about the future.
"Star Wars" movie is futuristic and dynamic.
heartbreaking: that breaks your heart and evokes sad emotions.
When my aunt watched "Titanic" she cried all day! It's such a heartbreaking film.
inspirational: evoking inspiration.

intense: a book or film loaded with actions and emotions that evokes strong feelings.
The play's plot was very intense. Just a minute after a couple had a quarrel in the forest, the secret lover appeared and started a fire-fight.
tear-jerking: tragic, making you cry.
My sister is very emotional. I would rather watch a comedy with her than a tear-jerking movie!
thought-provoking: a book or film that makes you think of new ideas or that changes your attitude to something.
Ray Bradbury's novel "Fahrenheit 451" is deeply thought-provoking. I had to rethink my attitude to legislation and censorship after I read it.

Advanced vocabulary:
action movie: film with fast moving scenes, often containing violence.
Last week I saw a great action movie with my brother at our local movie theatre.
bedtime reading: a book you read in your bed before going to sleep.
I'm really addicted to books! I can't even fall asleep without an hour of bedtime reading.
box office hit: a very successful movie, in terms of money.
The new movie might be a box office hit, but I didn't like it at all.
e-reader: a gadget for reading books.
My e-reader broke a few days ago, so now I'll need to fix it or buy a new one.
from cover to cover: from the first page to the last.
I am a slow reader so it takes me a lot of time to read a book from cover to cover.
hardcover: a book with hard cover. Opposite to softcover.
My friend gave me a hardcover book as a present for my birthday.
page turner: a book which is so good that you cannot stop reading it.
My sister recommended me a great book. It was such a page turner that I read it in one day!
plot: a storyline of a book or film.
intricate plot: a very complex, labyrinthine plot.
The famous Leo Tolstoy's novel "War and Peace" has a very intricate plot. It tells a story of five different families and comprises of 4 volumes.
subordinate plot (subplot): a plot that is related to, but less important than the main plot of a story.
Ernest Hemingway's novel "The Sun Also Rises" tells a love story of a man and a woman. However, the book involves many subordinate plots that raise questions about physical and spiritual affinity, trans-racial relationships and anti-Semitism.
threadbare plot: a simple, primitive plot.
The movie's plot was threadbare, but cutely disarming in its own way.
unravelling of the plot: the way in which a story develops over time.
I first thought Jack London's novel "Martin Eden" to be pretty straightforward. However, the plot unravelled in a very unpredicted way.

Useful idioms:

 
don't judge a book by its cover: a metaphorical phrase which means "you shouldn't judge someone or something by its appearance alone".
When I first met Sam I didn't find him handsome. But, as people say, don't judge a book by its cover. He turned out to be the most interesting person I've ever met and we married soon!
to catch the latest movie: to see a movie that has just come out.
We need to hurry up if we want to catch the latest movie.
to flick through: to look quickly through a book.
I flicked through my notes to prepare for the exam as didn't have time to study properly.
to know like a book: to know something extremely well.
I live in this city for my whole life and I know it like a book.
to read between the lines: to understand the hidden meaning about something.
When I broke up with my girlfriend, I didn't want anyone to know that. But Tom saw us in the different corners of the classroom and read everything between the lines. He's very discerning.



----------------------------------------------------------------------------



Vocabulary:
music genre: a distinct type of music. Famous music genres include:
classical music: music that is thought to be a part of a long, formal tradition.
My dad is fond of classical music. He listens to Mozart and Beethoven every day.
pop music: a genre of popular music.
One of the most famous pop-singers in the history are Michael Jackson and Madonna.
rock music: music that is based around amplified instruments, especially the electric guitar and electric bass, and is characterized by driving rhythms.
My favourite music genre is rock. I adore such rock bands as Red Hot Chili Peppers and The Beatles.

catchy tune: a tune or a song that's easy to remember and that you enjoy singing.
I heard a catchy song the other day and now it's stuck in my head.
elevator music: music that is played in places like supermarket or family restaurant. Almost always is very repetitive and annoying.
Yesterday I heard a very annoying elevator music in the local supermarket.
live music: music performance in front of an audience.
I prefer listening to a live music than to a recording. It's much more emotional and energetic.
music to one's ears: something (often information) very pleasant and enjoyable to someone.
When my teacher told me that I got the highest mark in the class for the assignment, it was like music to my ears.
opera: a kind of performance in which actors sing during their play with music performed by an orchestra.
I often listen to classical music and go to opera.
ringtone: sound that a cell phone makes when someone is calling.
I set my favourite song as a ringtone on my cell phone.
rock band: musicians that play rock music.
Last week I was on my favourite rock band's concert.
tone deaf: not able to discern the notes properly.
Alhough I'm tone deaf, I'd like to learn to sing properly in the future.
tuneful: pleasant and melodious music or sound.
I heard a tuneful choir of birds yesterday morning.

Useful idioms:

 
to face the music: to have to accept the unpleasant consequences of your actions.
If you commit a crime, eventually, you'll have to face the music.
to ring a bell: to sound familiar.
I think I heard this song somewhere. It definitely rings a bell.
to sound like a broken record: to repeat yourself again and again.
Little children often sound like a broken record and it annoys most people.
to strike (hit) a false note: to do something wrong.
I realised that I hit a false note on the exam when I received a 0 mark afterwards.


---------------------------------------------------------


Vocabulary:
air quality: the cleanliness of the air we breathe.
Due to the opening of a new factory nearby, the air quality here went down.
bio-diversity: a diversity in nature, among plants and animals.
Nowadays, we suffer the loss of bio-diversity.
endangered species: a category of animals or plans that might become extinct.
White rhinos are endangered species. There are only 5 white rhinos left in the world.
environmentally friendly: products that do not harm the environment.
I try to use only environmentally friendly goods in order to preserve the nature.
exhaust fumes: gases, ejected from an engine as waste products.
I bought an electric car to avoid producing exhaust fumes when I drive.
fossil fuels: energy resources like gas and oil.
Gas is one of the most well-known fossil fuels.
global warming: an increase in temperature all-over the world, as a result of greenhouse effect.
Global worming is a very serious problem that our society is dealing with.
greenhouse effect: heating of the atmosphere due to the carbon dioxide and other gases.
Greenhouse effect causes global warming.
melting of glaciers: the process of icebergs' melting.
Melting of glaciers increases the sea-level.
natural disaster: an event like an earthquake, hurricane etc.
I experienced a natural disaster in the form of an earthquake last year.
paper recycling: the processes of reprocessing waste paper for reuse.
It was found that paper recycling causes 35% less water pollution and 74% less air pollution than making virgin paper.
poacher: one who kills or takes wild animals illegally.
Poaching is considered a violation of hunting rules and impedes wildlife conservation.
toxic waste: poisonous rubbish, produced by industrial processes.
Many factories in my city dump toxic waste into rivers and lakes.

Useful phrases:

 
to become extinct: to stop existing.
Dinosaurs became extinct may centuries ago.
to be under threat: to be in danger of becoming extinct.
White Rhinos are under the threat of becoming extinct.
to dry up: to have all the water drained away.
The small river in my hometown dried up this summer due to the enormous heat.
to get back to nature: live a life that is closer to nature.
My friend decided to leave his boring job and move to the countryside to get back to nature.
to litter: to throw rubbish in inappropriate places.
I always try to find a garbage bin to throw my trash in. I don't like to litter.


------------------------------------------------------------


Temperatures:
boiling hot: an expression to describe a very hot weather.
The last summer was boiling hot, the average temperature reached 40 degrees!
hot
mild: warm and pleasant.
The weather in my country is mild in spring.
warm
chilly: cold.
It's chilly today, so I think you should wear a coat.
freezing cold: very cold.
I wanted to go ice skating on the New Year day, but it was freezing cold and I decided to stay home.
degrees Celsius: used to measure the temperature.
In the autumn, the average temperature here is 15 degrees Celsius
to go below zero: to become negative (about temperatures).
The temperature often goes below zero in the winter.

Cloudy weather:

 
gloomy: weather with dark clouds and dull light.
Personally, I don’t like gloomy weather. It makes me feel depressed.
clear: without clouds.
I adore clear weather, when there are no clouds on the sky.
to clear up: when clouds and rain disappear.
After a long rain, it finally cleared up.

Rainy weather:
to be drenched (to the skin): to be completely soaked with water.
I forgot to take an umbrella and was drenched in the rain.
gentle rain: light rain.
drizzle: a light rain that falls in very small drops.
It often drizzles in the morning.
downpour: a heavy fall of rain.
What a downpour! We are drenched to the skin.
to pour down: to rain heavily.
I like rainy weather. When it pours down, we sit at home with my family, talk and drink hot tea.
humid: containing a high amount of water.
In my country the climate is generally cold and humid, especially in the north.

Snowy weather:
snow-covered: covered with snow.
In the winter my family and I go skiing to the snow-covered hills of Switzerland.
heavy snow: when a lot of snow falls.
Children went to school in spite of the heavy snow.
frosty: cold.
Continental climate implies hot summers and frosty winters.
snowstorm: large amounts of wind and snow.
I don’t like winters because of frequent snowstorms.
hail: when small balls of ice (hailstones) fall from the sky.
After the hail, we found hailstones that were the size of golf balls!

Windy weather:
high wind = strong wind.
In the autumn strong winds are quite frequent.
breeze: a nice gentle wind.
I don’t usually like windy weather, but a light breeze from the ocean makes me happy.
wind chill factor: when the wind makes the air feel colder than the real temperature.
In my hometown it’s very windy in the winter. And though the temperature rarely goes below zero, with wind chill factor it feels like minus 10!

Sunny weather:
sunshine: the heat and light of the sun.
I love summertime because of the long days and bright sunshine.
dry: with no rain.
Summers in Turkey are often hot and dry.
heat stroke (sun stroke): a serious heat illness because of being too long in hot weather.
It’s often boiling hot in my city in the summer and a lot of people suffer from heat stroke.

Other vocabulary:
a spell of good weather: a period of good weather. You can use other adjectives instead of "good" to describe weather.
After a three-day spell of rainy weather, there was a spell of sunny weather.
changeable weather: weather that often changes.
In my country the weather is very changeable, periods of hot weather can be followed by heavy rains or even snowstorms!
mild climate: a climate without extreme weather conditions.

smog: a cloud of pollution.
My town is so polluted that I don’t see stars at night because of thick smog!
forecast: a prediction of how the weather will change.
Although the forecasts predicted a mild winter, the January was freezing cold.

-----------------------------------------------------


Education:

subject groups:
humanities: studies about human culture, such as literature, languages, philosophy, and history.
Chloe excels in humanities subjects. She's adept at arts and languages.
sciences: studies about the world, such as physics, biology, chemistry, and maths.
Mark doesn't like scientific subjects, he's just too lazy to learn formulas.

A for effort: a good mark, which is given someone for trying hard rather than for a success.
Although I'm not the smartest in my group, I often get an A for effort, because I try hard.
bachelor's degree: an undergraduate course which usually lasts 3 or 4 years.
I will receive my bachelor's degree in two years.
bookworm: a term to describe someone who really likes to read and spends a lot of time on it.
I'm a real bookworm. I won't stop until the book is read.
distance learning (e-learning): education that takes place remotely, usually via the Internet.
Distance learning is more flexible than traditional education, because students don't have to attend classes and can schedule their timetables as they want.
eager beaver: an enthusiastic and hard-working person.
My friend is an eager beaver. He studies everything with pleasure and gets great marks.
face-to-face classes: a traditional way of studying - in a classroom with a teacher.
When I was a kid, face-to-face classes had no alternatives, but nowadays a myriad of educational establishments offer online courses and individual tuition.
higher education: education that is followed after high school.
I plan on getting higher education after finishing school.
hit the books: begin studying hard.
I'm on my third year in the university, it is time to finally hit the books.
individual tuition (private tuition): instruction received individually or in a small group.
Individual tuition is sometimes more effective than group work.
intensive course: a course that offers longer and more frequent classes.
A few years ago I took an intensive French course in the university.
internship: a temporary position which students usually take to get work experience and practical knowledge.
Before I went into design industry, I took an internship in a company.
master's degree: a graduate course, which follows after bachelor's degree.
Master's degree is often important to find a job with a higher salary.
mature student: someone who's older than others.
Nowadays it's not uncommon to face a mature student in the class. People often change professions and get a second or third degree in their mid-thirties.
not the sharpest tool in the shed: a polite way of saying that someone isn't very smart.
Maybe John isn't the sharpest tool in the shed, but he's a good friend nonetheless.
public schools: exclusive independent schools in the UK.
My friend finished a public school a few years ago.
schoolboy error: a very basic and stupid mistake.
Sam made a schoolboy error on his English test.
single-sex schools: schools for either boys or girls.
My brother studied in a single-sex school.
small fraction: small part.
A small fraction of students managed to pass this exam.
state school: a school which is paid for by the state or country.
It is hard to find a good state school nowadays.
subject specialist: a person who is very talented in one specific field.
My math teacher was a real subject specialist. Thanks to him math is my favourite subject now.
teacher's pet: student whom teachers like the most.
Hugo is a teacher's pet, he attends all classes and manages to get good marks with poor knowledge.
three R's: basic educational skills (reading, writing, arithmetic).
Pupils in a primary school study the three R's.
to attend classes: to visit classes.
In my college, students need to attend classes five times a week.
to fall behind with studies: to progress less quickly than others.
Mary was ill for two weeks, so she fell behind with her studies.
to give feedback: to give some information or criticism on a subject.
I launched a project a couple of days ago and I want my friends to give me some feedback.
to goof around: spend time doing nothing important.
Sometimes I like to goof around, although my parents scold me for that.
to learn something by heart: to memorize something.
Last year i had to learn a very big poem by heart for my literature class.
to meet a deadline: to finish something within a time limit.
Unfortunately, we weren't able to meet the deadline for our project.
to pass with flying colours: to pass easily and with excellent result.
I'm studying hard and I will pass IELTS with flying colours.
to play truant: to skip classes without permission.
During my school years I often played truant with my friends.
to pursue studying: to continue studying.
Lora would like to pursue studying in the future to become a professor.
to set aside some time: to take some time.
I need to set aside some time to collect my thoughts.
to sit an exam: to take an exam.
Tomorrow I'll have to sit a two-hour math exam.
to take a year out: to spend one year working or traveling before studying in the University.
My friend took a year out and went traveling to the UK.
tuition fees: money you pay for your education.
I had to pay tuition fees this summer.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


IELTS Speaking Vocabulary. Food
On this page you can find very useful IELTS speaking vocabulary for Food topic. By learning this vocabulary and using it to answer various questions about Food on IELTS Speaking test, you will achieve a high score.

See IELTS Speaking sample about Food >


 
dine in: dine at home.
We're dining in tonight.
dine out: dine at a restaurant.
We're dining out tonight.
fussy eater: someone who is very picky about the food and doesn't eat everything.
My husband is a fussy eater, and he's never pleased with my cooking.
home-cooked food: food cooked at home, usually implies that food is healthy.
Preparing home-cooked food is a good way to make a balanced meal.
in a walking distance of: close to.
I usually dine at a restaurant that's in a walking distance of my home.
Italian cuisine: traditional Italian food. You can also say French cuisine, Russian cuisine, Chinese cuisine and so on.
I adore pasta, pizza and Italian cuisine in general.
more of a chore than a pleasure: something you do rather unwillingly.
I think that cooking is more of a chore than a pleasure.
mouth-watering: delicious, appetizing.

my mouth is watering: that is to say you find something very appetizing. People use this expression when they see/smell food that looks very delicious.
My mouth is watering every time I think about my grandmother's apple pie.
nutritious products: products rich in calories.
A nutritious breakfast is a great way to start the day, as it gives your body the nutrients and you get enough energy.
processed food: food that has been modified in an undesirable or unhealthy way to achieve its current state.
Try to avoid processed foods like flavored nuts and cereal bars. It is much healthier to eat organic food.
quality justifies the bill: when a product is worth buying due its good quality, even if it's expensive.
I first thought those strawberries were too expensive, but when I tasted them I understood that their quality justified the bill.
quick snack: a light and quick meal, usually unhealthy.
Eating quick snack instead of main meal can be harmful for stomach.
ready meal: a meal that you buy already cooked, which only requires reheating to be eaten.
I had no desire to cook, so I bought a ready meal in a nearby supermarket.
restrain one's hunger: to avoid eating when you really want to. Usually practiced during diets.
John couldn't restrain his hunger anymore and went to the nearest fast-food restaurant.
slap-up meal: a quick and fatty meal. To slap up means to cook something very quickly.
I feel like making a slap-up meal tonight. 
starving hungry: to be extremely hungry.
I woke up starving hungry yesterday and ate the whole roast chicken.
take-away: a meal prepared in a café/restaurant and eaten at home.
I'm going to ring the Japanese restaurant and order a takeaway.
the main meal: the most important meal of the day.

to be dying of hunger: an exaggerated way of saying you are really hungry.
I haven't eaten all day. I'm dying of hunger!
to be full-up: to eat to the point that you can't eat anymore.
- Would you like more chips? 
- No, thank you, I'm already full-up!
to be ravenous (to have ravenous appetite): to be really hungry, starving, voracious.
After working all day, I had a ravenous appetite.
to be starving hungry: an exaggerated way of saying you are very hungry.

to bolt something down: to eat a large amount of food very quickly.
Don't bolt your food down like that, it's very rude!
to catch a snack: to eat a little portion of food very quickly.

to eat a balanced diet: to eat correctly and in time.

to eat like a horse: to always eat a lot.
She's so ​thin, ​yet she ​eats like a ​horse.
to follow a recipe: to cook a meal using instructions.
Although she had never cooked a jugged hare before, she followed a recipe and made a fantastic meal.
to foot the bill: to pay the bill.
You paid for dinner last time. Let me foot the bill for lunch today.
to grab a bite to eat: to eat something quickly.
I won't eat the whole cake, just let me grab a bite to eat.
to have a sweet tooth: to enjoy eating sweet food.
Dave eats candy all the time. He must have a sweet tooth.
to overeat oneself: eat too much, eat immodestly.
If you overeat, you're bound to get fat.
to play with your food: to push food around the plate without eating it.

to spoil your appetite: to do something that would hinder your desire to eat.
Stop talking about the snails, you're spoiling my appetite!
to tuck into: to eat something greedily and with pleasure.
After not eating the whole day, he tucked into the ham like a savage.
to wine and dine: to banquet, to "entertain with good food". If you wine and dine someone, you usually take him out to dinner at a fancy restaurant.
The company wined and dined us, hoping to convince us we should accept the job.
to work up an appetite: to do something that will lead to hunger.
He must have worked up an appetite in the gym.


-------------------------------------------------------------------


IELTS Speaking Vocabulary. Sport
On this page you can find essential IELTS speaking vocabulary for Sport topic. As you know, Speaking test score makes 25% of your IELTS score. By learning this vocabulary and using it to answer various questions about sport on IELTS Speaking test, you will achieve a high score.

Hint: to enlarge the image, move a cursor over it or touch it.

See IELTS Speaking sample about Sport >


 
active rest: a leisure time during which you exercise.
Active rest between lessons helps children to study more effectively.
athletics track (running track): a track for running, usually used for athletic races.
The 9-lane running track is equipped to cope with competitions of all levels.
barbell: a weight-lifting gear.
barbell
blow the competition away: win easily the competition.
After training for seven years, he blew the baseball competition away.
brisk walk (brisk walking): a sport in which people walk fast, but not as fast as a full run.
Brisk walking is a great exercise for those, who want to lose weight.
to build muscle: to gain muscle mass.
John was very skinny five year ago, but now he has built muscle and looks really strong.
fitness program: a timetable of activities to keep you in a good shape.
football fan: someone who adores football.
football pitch: the surface on which you play football.
football season: a period when football is played.
jogging: a form of running at a slow pace.
keep-fit exercises: exercises that help you to keep your body in a good shape.
personal best: an achievement in sport that is better than anything you have achieved before.
Today I've ran 100m in 12 seconds! That is my personal best.
personal trainer (sports coach): a person that helps you to train on a one-to-one basis.
It's much easier to train with a sports coach than alone.
sports centre (fitness centre): a specific building where people can do different sports.
I practise fencing at a local sports centre.
sports facilities: the equipment and services needed to do a sport.
I chose this gym because it offers a wide range of sports facilities.
sports meeting (athletics meeting): an event at which a number of athletic contests are held.
The next athletics meeting will be held in November and will include javelin, pole vault, hurdles and steeplechase.
squash/tennis/badminton court: the surface where you play these sports.
strength-training strategy: set of exercises to build muscles.
My dad advised me a wonderful strength-training strategy.
strenuous exercise: exercise that needs a lot of physical effort.
It is recommended to drink a lot of water after strenuous exercises.
strong swimmer: an experienced swimmer.
swimming pool: a place filled with water made specifically for swimming.
that's the way the ball bounces: used to say that things don't always go as planned, but there is nothing we can do about it.
Dave didn't win the game as he expected, but he never minds - that's the way the ball bounces.
to be keen to do smth (to be keen on doing smth): to be very interested in doing something.
I'm keen on cycling.
to be out of condition (to be out of shape): to be in bad physical condition, to lose strength.
Lily hasn't been training for years, she is out of condition now.
to be saved by the bell: to be saved from losing by a timely interruption.
Evan would lose this round, if he wasn't saved by the bell.
to build muscle: to gain muscle by working out.
to get into shape: to become fit.
Paul started training in gym because he wanted to get into shape.
to keep fit: to stay in a good shape.
I practise dancing to keep fit.
to run the marathon: to run a distance of 42.195 kilometres.
to set a record: to achieve the best result in a sport.
A new record in pole vault was set two years ago.
to take up doing smth: to start doing something new (usually sport).
I took up dancing last week.
to train hard: to train with effort and passion.
to warm up: to perform light exercises to prepare for a hard workout.
A good warm-up readies your body for a hard training.
to work out: to exercise in gym.
treadmill: an exercise machine in the gym used for walking or running, while staying in the same place.
Good treadmills provide a indoor workout experience as natural as the outdoors.
treadmill
trial-and-error method: a method of reaching a solution by trying various means until you succeed.
I learned swimming by trial-and-error method, trying different moves until I figured out how to float on water.
workout : session of exercises in gym. You can do a workout for chest, for legs, for losing weight etc.
My trainer suggested me a workout for abdominal muscles.

Some interesting sports:
fencing: a sport in which people use spit or saber in attack and defense.
fencing
hurdles: a race in which runners must jump over a series of barriers.
hurdles
javelin: a sport where a metal or metal-tipped spear is thrown for distance.
javelin
pole vault: a sport in which a person uses a long, flexible pole to jump.
pole vault
steeplechase: a race in which people riding horses jump over fences, water, etc.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


IELTS Speaking Vocabulary. Technology
On this page we've gathered essential IELTS speaking vocabulary for Technology topic. It can be used to answer various questions about technology on IELTS Speaking test and achieve a high score.

See IELTS Speaking sample about Technology >


 
computer age: the period in modern history characterized by rapid technology development and widespread computer use.
Living in a computer age has many benefits.
computer buff: a user who is good at working with a computer.
Mike is a computer buff. He got an A+ on his programming exam.
computer fatigue: a syndrome of tiredness resulting from long computer usage.
About 60% of IT specialists are affected by computer fatigue.
cutting-edge: something innovational and leading.
Cutting-edge technology.
desktop PC: a personal computer that remains on a desk.
I have an old desktop PC that I use for surfing the net when I’m home.
digital editing: a process of changing digital materials like audio or video files.
Being good at digital editing is essential in our time.
download (podcasts): to save a copy of a file from the internet to your own device.
Yesterday I downloaded a few films that I plan to watch during the weekends.
essential: something you can’t imagine your life without.
Internet is an essential piece of technology for many people.
gadget: an advanced piece of technology, like smartphone.
Nowadays almost everybody owns a gadget.
geek: someone who is obsessed with technology, especially computers.
My friend is a real geek. He owns a bunch of computers and other gadgets.
hold the line: wait a minute.
She told me to hold the line, because she had to open the door.
large screen: a big-sized monitor.
A few days ago I decided to renew my computer, so I bought a large screen for it.
light years ahead: very far away from.
Modern computers are light years ahead of those which people used in 90s.
on the cutting edge: at the forefront of progress.
Paul's new laptop is on the cutting edge of technology.
operating system: the most important program that runs the computer.
I chose to buy a laptop which is based on the Windows operating system.
out of steam: tired, exhausted.
Due to today's intense workday I am out of steam, so I won’t be able to work tomorrow.
rocket science: a very complicated subject for someone.
Biology is a rocket science for me. I don’t understand anything in it.
send an attachment: send an email with an added file.
My brother sent an attachment with his homework to the professor.
silver surfer: an old person, who uses the Internet.
Uncle Bob is a silver surfer. He uses the Internet every day, although he’s almost 70.
social media: media used to interact with other people.
Facebook is the biggest social media in the world.
time-consuming and inefficient: something that takes too much of your time and isn’t rational to do.
I find watching football time-consuming and inefficient.
to access websites/email: to visit websites/email.
John accessed his email today to see if he had received any letters.
to back up files: to make a copy of files in case of a computer problem.
I had to back up files on my computer, because I was going to reinstall my operating system.
to be stuck behind a computer: to use computer for a long period of time.
A lot of teenagers are stuck behind their computers all day.
to boot up: to start a computer.
I booted up my computer as soon as I got home.
to browse websites: to search for websites.
I spent a few hours browsing the websites today, until I found was I was looking for.
to crash: to suddenly stop working.
My computer crashed when I was writing my essay.
to go online: to use the Internet.
Millions of people go online every day.
to navigate a website: to find what you need on the website.
Navigating a website is not very easy, especially if the website is poorly designed.
to pull the plug: to end an activity.
After being stuck behind a computer all day, I decided to pull the plug.
to push someone's buttons: to do specific thing to irritate somebody (usually intentionally).
I became so angry because he pushed my buttons by adding pepper to my ice cream!
to surf the web: to look through websites, searching for something you need, or simply for entertainment.
I was surfing the web yesterday for three hours, because I had nothing else to do.
to upgrade: to renew a software or a piece hardware.
Thanks to the new program for students, I updated my computer for free.
well-oiled machine: something that works perfectly well.
My computer, despite being 7 years old, is still a well-oiled machine.
widespread computer use: that is to say people use computers very often.
Wi-Fi hotspots: a public place where you can access the Internet.
Our university has a Wi-Fi hotspot. It is very convenient.
wireless network: a network where users can access the Internet without using any cables.
We have installed a wireless network at home.
word processing: writing, editing and producing words on a computer, using special programs.
There are tons of word processing programs.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------


IELTS Speaking Vocabulary. Friends
On this page you can find useful IELTS speaking vocabulary for Friends topic. Use it to answer questions about friends and achieve a high score on IELTS Speaking test.

See IELTS Speaking sample about Friends >


 
close friend: a very good friend.
enjoy each other's company: to like spending time with each other.
Steve and Noah are always together, they definitely enjoy each others company.
fair-weather friend: someone who is your friend only when you are cheerful and successful.
A lot of John's friends turned out to be fair-weather friends. They were with him when he was rich and left him when he went bankrupt.
friends are like second family: that is to say your friends love you and make you feel comfortable.
get in touch with somebody: to contact somebody.
I plan to get in touch with my friends when I return home.
near and dear to someone: very important to someone.
Her parents are the only people who are near and dear to her.
shoulder to cry on: someone who is always ready to listen to your problems.
I'm so glad my boyfriend is so kind and sympathetic, it's good to always have a shoulder to cry on.
to be through thick and thin: to have some good times and difficult times together.
Your parents are married for 15 years, they must have been through thick and thin together.
to be well-matched: to be similar to somebody in interests.
They are well-matched.
to break up: to end a relationship.
It is hard to believe that Jacob and Sarah broke up. They were dating since high school.
to drift apart: to become less close to someone.
As years went by, school friends drifted apart.
to fall for someone (to fall in love with someone): to start loving somebody.
They were childhood friends, and he fell for her!
to fall out with: to quarrel, to have a conflict.
He ​left ​the party after ​falling out with his ​girlfriend.
to get on like a house on fire: people get on like a house on fire when they like each other's company and ​become ​friends very ​quickly.
I like my new roommate! We have a lot of same interests and get on like a house on fire.
to get on well with somebody: to have a good relationship with somebody.
I'm an outgoing person and I easily get on well with new people.
to get to know someone: to become acquainted with someone.
I thought Jenna was selfish until I got to know her and understood her real character.
to have a lot in common: to have similar interests.
to have friends in high places: to have friends in powerful positions in business or government.
Joe owes his fast career growth to his friends in high places.
to hit it off with somebody: to quickly become close friends with somebody.
I could not imagine that Laura will hit it off with Dylan! They are so different.
to keep in touch with someone: to maintain contact with someone.
I keep in touch with my friends from high school, although we graduated five years ago.
to lose touch with someone: to lose contact with someone.
I lost touch with Mary since she moved to Canada.
to see eye to eye: to agree.
I think it's better to live in a big city, but my brother doesn't see eye to eye with me about it.
to strike up (a conversation, a relationship): to start.
I feel awkward when I strike up a conversation with unknown people.
ups and downs: a mixture of good and bad things that happen.
We're friends for almost 30 years! Surely we've had our ups and downs.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------


IELTS Speaking Vocabulary. Travel & Holidays

 
Before starting to practice answering various IELTS Speaking topics you should learn some topic vocabulary to know how to structure your answer.

On this page you can find useful IELTS speaking vocabulary with sentence examples for Travel & Holidays topic. This vocabulary is very useful to answer questions about travel and holidays and achieve a high score on IELTS Speaking test.

See IELTS Speaking sample about Travel & Holidays >

accommodation: a room or building in which you stay during holidays or live.
While I'm travelling, my favourite types of accommodation are hotels.
all holiday: a time after you lost your job.
He lost his job yesterday. Now it’s all holiday for him.
all-inclusive: a hotel deal where the price includes accommodation, meals and drinks at any time.
I've never thought that hotels with all-incusive service are so comfortable! You can grab a piece of cake at 6 a.m. or get a cocktail at midnight.
half-board: if you request 'half-board' at a hotel, breakfast and dinner would be included in the hotel price (as part of the package).
John and Lily liked their tour with half-board service. They spent breakfasts and dinners in the hotel and bought lunches in the nearby cafes.
full-board: if you request 'full-board' at a hotel, that would include all three meals (breakfast, lunch and dinner) in the price of your accommodation.

self-catering: a holiday deal where meals are not provided.
Mary thinks that self-catering is neither pleasant nor efficient.
to book (something): to arrange and confirm a place on a flight, a room in a hotel or a ticket for an event in the future.
If you book your plane tickets in advance, they will be much cheaper.
breathtaking view: an amazing view.
I’ve seen many breathtaking views during my journey to Paris.
busman's holiday: when you spend your free time similarly to the time when you work. This expression comes from the idea that a bus driver would spend his holiday traveling somewhere on a bus.
Unfortunately, many people spend a busman’s holiday nowadays.
charter flight: a cheap regular flight.
Due to our modest budget, we had to take a charter-flight.
check-in desk: the place at the airport where you register for your flight and deposit your luggage.

far-off destination: a distant place.
Australia is a far-off destination, nonetheless I want to visit it.
getting away from it all: escaping in order to rest from a daily routine.
After I passed my exams, I wanted to get away from it all for at least a couple of days.
go off the beaten track: to visit an uncommon place.
Unlike my brother, I prefer to go off the beaten track.
guided tour: a tour in which a group of people is guided by an expert.
Guided tours are a great way to learn about different places of interest.
head for: go in a direction for.
I’m heading for France for my next holidays.
holiday brochure: a publication with details of holiday.
Our guide gave us a great brochure about our hotel.
holiday destination: where you go for a holiday.
We chose New York as our holiday destination for the next summer.
holiday of a lifetime: a very special holiday, once in a lifetime.
Last year me and my family had a holiday of a lifetime in Italy.
holiday resort (tourist resort): a place where lots of people go for a holiday.
Last year my family went on a journey to London. We lived in a great tourist resort.
hordes of tourists: crowds of tourists.
Hordes of tourist can be seen during summer near the city park.
in the middle of nowhere: in a place that is far away from where most people live.
My grand-mother lives in the middle of nowhere, but she loves her old little village.
local crafts: thighs made in the region.
My sister bought some amazing local crafts on her trip to India.
out of season: not within the main holiday period.
I decided to go on a journey with my friends out of season.
passport control: a place where you get your passport checked.
I spent a few hours waiting in line on a passport control.
package tour: a holiday at a fixed price in which the travel company arranges your travel, hotels, and sometimes meals for you:
We bought a cheap package tour to Italy and stayed in a big hotel by the sea.
picturesque village: a nice, beautiful village.
My grandparents live in a picturesque village.
places of interest: memorable and honorable places.
My native city has a variety of places of interest.
short break: a little holiday.
My father had a short break this year, I hope he’ll be able to relax some more.
stunning landscape: a beautiful countryside.
Stunning landscapes are only one of many reasons why I want to visit Africa.
to go sightseeing: to go visiting sights of interest.
Today we went sightseeing with my friends.
to travel on foot / horse
When I'm in a small town I prefer to travel on foot.
to travel by bus / plane / car / bicycle / motorcycle
Although I usually travel by car, when I decided to visit Paris I had to travel by plane.
tourist attractions: places which tourists tend to visit.
Despite not being a tourist attraction, new fountain is very popular among the locals.
tourist trap: place with many tourists.
We've visited many tourists traps lately.
travel agency: a shop that specializes in booking holidays.
I've bought tickets for my trip through a travel agency.
wildlife safari: an observational holiday, mainly in Africa.
I’d love to go on a wildlife safari sometime.
youth hostel: a cheap hotel.
During our trip we stayed in a hostel, because we didn’t have enough money for a hotel.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

